dime-research-standards/pillar-1-research-ethics/research-ethics-resources/informed-consent-templates/README.md, before:

# Read first

These are boiler plate templates for written consent that can be used while interviewing a respondent.
Many surveys require additional/different components in the consent based on the type of respondent (for example, minors as respondent)
or if the survey includes certain components (such as audio-taping).

This folder includes two consent templates:

1. Written consent – This is a printable version of the contains all details including contact person in case of any issues that
can be shared with the respondent for future use.
2. Oral consent – This is the bare minimum from the written consent that should be read out to a respondent before starting a survey.

Most IRBs require that the entire written consent is shared with the participants and their signature is taken on another copy
retained by the research team. 
In cases that the written consent is too long to read out,
we recommend reading out the oral consent to respondents and giving them a printed copy of the written consent.
Note that the exact practice can vary based on the what has been agreed upon in the IRB approvals.
It is essential to follow the guidelines set in the IRB.

Informed consent must include, at a minimum, information about the authority for conducting the project,
intended uses of the information, and whether participation is mandatory or voluntary.
Projects with applicable risk points must employ two or more of the items listed below.
The higher the risk, the more extensive the informed consent procedures must be, such as the following: 

- Verbal consent that is recorded 
- Notification by an impartial third party 
- Both written and oral communications, with appropriate translations 
- Reminders throughout the interaction or intervention 
- Written materials that can be kept 
- Signed consent form 
- Consent specific to the recording medium (e.g., videotape)

IPA provides a comprehensive [checklist](https://www.poverty-action.org/sites/default/files/Consent_Form_Checklist_and_Template.docx)
of all the items that can be included in a consent form.
The University California, Berkeley provides an informed consent
[checklist](https://cphs.berkeley.edu/checklists_worksheets/consent.pdf) as well.

This template is drawn using the templates for
[MIT IRB](https://couhes.mit.edu/sites/default/files/documents/Consent-Form-Non-Biomedical-2019-03-11.doc),
[Northwestern University IRB](https://irb.northwestern.edu/sites/irb/files/documents/HRP-582%20-%20TEMPLATE%20-%20Social%20Behavorial%20Consent_09062019.docx),
and [University of California, Berkeley IRB](https://cphs.berkeley.edu/CF-Template_SocBehav.docx)

Commit message:

add survey modes for consent types

dime-research-standards/pillar-1-research-ethics/research-ethics-resources/informed-consent-templates/README.md, after:

# Read first

These are boiler plate templates for written consent that can be used while interviewing a respondent.
Many surveys require additional/different components in the consent based on the type of respondent (for example, minors as respondent)
or if the survey includes certain components (such as audio-taping).

This folder includes the following consent templates:

1. Written consent – This is a printable version of the contains all details including contact person in case of any issues that
can be shared with the respondent for future use.
2. Written consent w COVID-19 risks - This is the same as the written consent including risks for COVID-19 transmission.
3. Oral consent – This is the bare minimum from the written consent that should be read out to a respondent before starting a survey.
4. Oral consent w COVID-19 risks - This is the same as the oral consent including risks for COVID-19 transmission.
5. SMS consent - This is a succinct consent to be obtained via SMS before starting a survey.

The table below indicates the different types of consents and in which survey method they can be used. For each consent format, 
the preferred for survey mode is in bold. The team can pick appropriate consent format based on the requirements in the field.

|    Consent type    |      Survey Mode       |
| ------------------ | ---------------------- |
| Written consent    | **CAPI**                   |
| Electronic consent | CAPI, CATI, **CAWI**, SMS  |
| Oral consent       | CAPI, **CATI**             |
| SMS consent        | CAPI, CATI, CAWI, **SMS**  |

Electronic consent is the same as written consent but collected via an electronic format instead of on paper. 

Note that, in case of electronic consent and SMS consent, it should be sent out to respondents before survey starts (ideally the day before)


Most IRBs require that the entire written consent is shared with the participants and their signature is taken on another copy
retained by the research team. 
In cases that the written consent is too long to read out,
we recommend reading out the oral consent to respondents and giving them a printed copy of the written consent.
Note that the exact practice can vary based on the what has been agreed upon in the IRB approvals.
It is essential to follow the guidelines set in the IRB.

Informed consent must include, at a minimum, information about the authority for conducting the project,
intended uses of the information, and whether participation is mandatory or voluntary.
Projects with applicable risk points must employ two or more of the items listed below.
The higher the risk, the more extensive the informed consent procedures must be, such as the following: 

- Verbal consent that is recorded 
- Notification by an impartial third party 
- Both written and oral communications, with appropriate translations 
- Reminders throughout the interaction or intervention 
- Written materials that can be kept 
- Signed consent form 
- Consent specific to the recording medium (e.g., videotape)

IPA provides a comprehensive [checklist](https://www.poverty-action.org/sites/default/files/Consent_Form_Checklist_and_Template.docx)
of all the items that can be included in a consent form.
The University California, Berkeley provides an informed consent
[checklist](https://cphs.berkeley.edu/checklists_worksheets/consent.pdf) as well.

This template is drawn using the templates for
[MIT IRB](https://couhes.mit.edu/sites/default/files/documents/Consent-Form-Non-Biomedical-2019-03-11.doc),
[Northwestern University IRB](https://irb.northwestern.edu/sites/irb/files/documents/HRP-582%20-%20TEMPLATE%20-%20Social%20Behavorial%20Consent_09062019.docx),
and [University of California, Berkeley IRB](https://cphs.berkeley.edu/CF-Template_SocBehav.docx)
