## Code Review Package Checklist



### **Overview**

The submission package for peer code review should include all components in the checklist below.Code review participants can provide either a link to the complete package (**OneDrive** or **GitHub**), or a zipped folder – along with information on programming language(s) involved and approximate run time.  

 Questions should be directed to [DIME Analytics](mailto:dimeanalytics@worldbank.org).



### **Package Requirements**

#### 1. **Code**
- [ ] All scripts to be reviewed are included.  
- [ ] A **main script** is included that allows the reviewer to run all code after changing only the top-level directory.

#### 2. **Data**
- [ ] All de-identified data necessary to run the code is included.

#### 3. **README**
A [README](https://github.com/worldbank/wb-reproducible-research-repository/blob/main/resources/README_Template.md) file containing:

- [ ] Software and version used  
- [ ] Approximate run time of the code  
- [ ] Purpose of each folder  
- [ ] High-level objective of the code (e.g., regression analysis, data visualization)  
- [ ] Line(s) in the **main script** that should be changed to run the code on a different machine  
- [ ] Purpose of each script (if multiple scripts are used)  
- [ ] Outputs produced (if part of the review)  
- [ ] Mapping of outputs to scripts responsible for generating them  
- [ ] Any specific requests or guidance for the reviewer
- [ ] README file path and name:




### **Component-Specific Requirements**

- [ ] Before submitting your package, ensure the following requirements are met.

#### 1. **Main Script Requirements**
- [ ] The main script should be structured to ensure smooth execution. See templates for [Stata](https://github.com/worldbank/wb-reproducible-research-repository/blob/main/resources/main.do) and [R](https://github.com/worldbank/wb-reproducible-research-repository/blob/main/resources/main.R)
 main scripts
- [ ] The main script runs from start to end after changing only directory paths in one location.  This should be clearly specified in the README.  
- [ ] The main script installs any required packages or provides instructions to do so (e.g., SSC for Stata, CRAN for R).  Refer to this session on [Building Reproducible Environments](https://osf.io/q7rjt) for more information 
- [ ] For Stata , the main do-file sets configurations such as `version`, `matsize`, and `varabbrev`, either directly or via a wrapper command  (e.g., `ieboilstart` from `ietoolkit` ).  
- [ ] For R, all necessary packages are loaded within the main script.  
- [ ] **Approximate run time** of the main script is provided.



#### 2. **Data Requirements**
- [ ] The data can be shared for the review.  
- [ ] The data  is de-identified.  
- [ ] All necessary datasets are included in the package.



#### 3. **Output Requirements**
- [ ] [ Refer to this session on Creating Reproducible Outputs for details.](https://osf.io/ezmsb)
- [ ] All outputs generated by the code are included in the package.  
- [ ] Outputs are saved and stored in the appropriate folders (e.g., final outputs in `Outputs/Final`).


