dime-research-standards/pillar-4-data-security/data-security-resources/dime-data-nda.md, before:

# DIME STC/STT Non-Disclosure Agreement

Version: June 20, 2022

##

I, ________________________________ [print name of STC/STT], have agreed to maintain full confidentiality when contributing to research projects at DIME. 	


## PART 1

By signing this document, I acknowledge my responsibilities to:


1. Keep all research information shared with me confidential.
Therefore, I have committed to not discussing or sharing any information in any form or format
(e.g., files, drives, transcripts, photos)
with anyone outside the research team (as defined by the Principal Investigator),
and to only share information outside the research team if
specifically requested to do so in writing by the Principal Investigator;

2. Hold in strictest confidence the identity or identifying information of any individual
that may be revealed while performing the research tasks;

3. Not make copies of any non-published data in any form or format
(e.g., drives, tapes, transcripts),
unless specifically requested to do so by the Principal Investigator;

4. Keep all _personal data_ stored in any form or format
(e.g., files, drives, tapes, transcripts) secure
both when transferred to me, while in my possession,
and when shared with team members allowed to have access to personal data.
Personal data is (as defined by the
[World Bank Personal Data Directive](https://ppfonline.worldbank.org/search/9228ae8f-f14a-40a0-a8af-ec7c7d1d7885?ver=current) - WB intranet only)
_any information relating to an identified or identifiable individual.
An identifiable individual is one who can be identified by reasonable means,
directly or indirectly, by reference to an attribute or combination of attributes within the data,
or combination of the data with other available information.
Attributes that can be used to identify an identifiable individual include,
but are not limited to,
name, identification number, location data, online identifier, metadata and
factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic,
cultural or social identity of an individual._
Measures required to keep data secure depend on context, but as a minimum always include (when applicable):
    - making sure that no data is transferred to me in an insecure method;
      (this applies to data collection, receiving data from research partners or other members of the research team);
    - keeping all digitized personal data in securely encrypted files;
    - password-protecting my computer and any other digital devices I use;
    - never transferring identifying information over e-mail;
    - signing out from, or locking the computer containing identifying information
    when away from the computer, no matter how temporarily;
    - using headphones or a private setting if transcribing recordings;

5. Never share personal data with anyone that is neither listed on the IRB
nor explicitly approved by the principal investigator to have access to personal data;

6. Destroy all personal data when the data retention period stated in the informed consent protocol or the data license agreement has elapsed
regardless of whether I am still working on any research tasks or not.
This does not apply to anonymized data;

7. Return all data (personal or not) stored in any physical format (e.g., drives, transcripts, photos)
to the Principal Investigator when I have completed the research tasks, or at the end of my contract;

8. Destroy all research information (personal or not) stored in any form not returnable to the Principal Investigator
(e.g., information stored on my computer hard drive)
upon completion of the research tasks, or at the end of my contract,
after I have made sure that the Principal Investigator has copies of all the data that I have local copies of.

## PART 2

By signing this document, I confirm that I understand the Letter of Appointment I have already signed, which stipulates that:

1. “All intellectual property rights in or relating to any works
produced during the course of your appointment shall belong to the World Bank”
2. “All materials produced or acquired under terms of this contract -
written, graphic, film, magnetic tape, or otherwise -
shall remain the property of the World Bank
unless such rights are explicitly relinquished by the World Bank, in writing”
3. “The World Bank retains the exclusive right to publish or disseminate
in all languages reports arising from such materials.”

Meaning that I, under no circumstances,
will publish any data or any result based on not-yet-published data or information
from my research project except at the express request of the Principal Investigator.

## PART 3

By signing this document, I confirm that I have read the
[DIME Analytics Data Security Guidelines](https://github.com/worldbank/dime-standards/blob/master/dime-research-standards/pillar-4-data-security/dime-data-security-guidelines.md)
and that I have passed the
[DIME Data Security Assessment](https://survey.wb.surveycto.com/collect/DataSecAssess)
(do not submit this NDA before you have passed the assessment).
I agree that I will follow those Guidelines in all my research tasks at DIME.
I also understand that I am personally responsible for any data breaches
resulting from failure to follow those guidelines;
and that I must report any violation of those guidelines immediately to the primary investigator.

## PART 4

By signing this document, I acknowledge my responsibility to stay updated on the
following documents and guidelines:

- [World Bank Personal Data Privacy Policy](https://ppfonline.worldbank.org/search/ca36fdc4-5191-4d89-a49d-6189a98bad86?ver=current) (WB intranet only)
- [World Bank Personal Data Privacy Directive](https://ppfonline.worldbank.org/search/9228ae8f-f14a-40a0-a8af-ec7c7d1d7885?ver=current) (WB intranet only)
- If collecting primary personal data: [DEC Guidelines for Conducting Surveys](https://microdatalib.worldbank.org/files/dec-privacy-guidelines.pdf)
- [DIME Analytics Data Security Guidelines](https://github.com/worldbank/dime-standards/blob/master/dime-research-standards/pillar-4-data-security/dime-data-security-guidelines.md)

## PART 5

By signing this document, I also confirm that it is my responsibility to
follow up with DIME Analytics (dimeanalytics@worldbank.org)
if there is any part of this agreement that I do not fully understand.

### STC/STT Signature

Signature of STC/STT: ______________________________

Printed name of STC/STT: ______________________________

Date: _________________

Commit message:

NDA - only use for DIME members

dime-research-standards/pillar-4-data-security/data-security-resources/dime-data-nda.md, after:

# DIME STC/STT Non-Disclosure Agreement

_Version: Apr 27, 2023_

_This NDA is only intended to be used by members of DIME who
already have an active World Bank contract.
It is only meant to help clarify what is expected from the DIME member
regarding data privacy and intellectual property,
by using examples relevant to the type of work done at DIME._

##

I, ________________________________ [print name of STC/STT], have agreed to maintain full confidentiality when contributing to research projects at DIME. 	


## PART 1

By signing this document, I acknowledge my responsibilities to:


1. Keep all research information shared with me confidential.
Therefore, I have committed to not discussing or sharing any information in any form or format
(e.g., files, drives, transcripts, photos)
with anyone outside the research team (as defined by the Principal Investigator),
and to only share information outside the research team if
specifically requested to do so in writing by the Principal Investigator;

2. Hold in strictest confidence the identity or identifying information of any individual
that may be revealed while performing the research tasks;

3. Not make copies of any non-published data in any form or format
(e.g., drives, tapes, transcripts),
unless specifically requested to do so by the Principal Investigator;

4. Keep all _personal data_ stored in any form or format
(e.g., files, drives, tapes, transcripts) secure
both when transferred to me, while in my possession,
and when shared with team members allowed to have access to personal data.
Personal data is (as defined by the
[World Bank Personal Data Directive](https://ppfonline.worldbank.org/search/9228ae8f-f14a-40a0-a8af-ec7c7d1d7885?ver=current) - WB intranet only)
_any information relating to an identified or identifiable individual.
An identifiable individual is one who can be identified by reasonable means,
directly or indirectly, by reference to an attribute or combination of attributes within the data,
or combination of the data with other available information.
Attributes that can be used to identify an identifiable individual include,
but are not limited to,
name, identification number, location data, online identifier, metadata and
factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic,
cultural or social identity of an individual._
Measures required to keep data secure depend on context, but as a minimum always include (when applicable):
    - making sure that no data is transferred to me in an insecure method;
      (this applies to data collection, receiving data from research partners or other members of the research team);
    - keeping all digitized personal data in securely encrypted files;
    - password-protecting my computer and any other digital devices I use;
    - never transferring identifying information over e-mail;
    - signing out from, or locking the computer containing identifying information
    when away from the computer, no matter how temporarily;
    - using headphones or a private setting if transcribing recordings;

5. Never share personal data with anyone that is neither listed on the IRB
nor explicitly approved by the principal investigator to have access to personal data;

6. Destroy all personal data when the data retention period stated in the informed consent protocol or the data license agreement has elapsed
regardless of whether I am still working on any research tasks or not.
This does not apply to anonymized data;

7. Return all data (personal or not) stored in any physical format (e.g., drives, transcripts, photos)
to the Principal Investigator when I have completed the research tasks, or at the end of my contract;

8. Destroy all research information (personal or not) stored in any form not returnable to the Principal Investigator
(e.g., information stored on my computer hard drive)
upon completion of the research tasks, or at the end of my contract,
after I have made sure that the Principal Investigator has copies of all the data that I have local copies of.

## PART 2

By signing this document, I confirm that I understand the Letter of Appointment I have already signed, which stipulates that:

1. “All intellectual property rights in or relating to any works
produced during the course of your appointment shall belong to the World Bank”
2. “All materials produced or acquired under terms of this contract -
written, graphic, film, magnetic tape, or otherwise -
shall remain the property of the World Bank
unless such rights are explicitly relinquished by the World Bank, in writing”
3. “The World Bank retains the exclusive right to publish or disseminate
in all languages reports arising from such materials.”

Meaning that I, under no circumstances,
will publish any data or any result based on not-yet-published data or information
from my research project except at the express request of the Principal Investigator.

## PART 3

By signing this document, I confirm that I have read the
[DIME Analytics Data Security Guidelines](https://github.com/worldbank/dime-standards/blob/master/dime-research-standards/pillar-4-data-security/dime-data-security-guidelines.md)
and that I have passed the
[DIME Data Security Assessment](https://survey.wb.surveycto.com/collect/DataSecAssess)
(do not submit this NDA before you have passed the assessment).
I agree that I will follow those Guidelines in all my research tasks at DIME.
I also understand that I am personally responsible for any data breaches
resulting from failure to follow those guidelines;
and that I must report any violation of those guidelines immediately to the primary investigator.

## PART 4

By signing this document, I acknowledge my responsibility to stay updated on the
following documents and guidelines:

- [World Bank Personal Data Privacy Policy](https://ppfonline.worldbank.org/search/ca36fdc4-5191-4d89-a49d-6189a98bad86?ver=current) (WB intranet only)
- [World Bank Personal Data Privacy Directive](https://ppfonline.worldbank.org/search/9228ae8f-f14a-40a0-a8af-ec7c7d1d7885?ver=current) (WB intranet only)
- If collecting primary personal data: [DEC Guidelines for Conducting Surveys](https://microdatalib.worldbank.org/files/dec-privacy-guidelines.pdf)
- [DIME Analytics Data Security Guidelines](https://github.com/worldbank/dime-standards/blob/master/dime-research-standards/pillar-4-data-security/dime-data-security-guidelines.md)

## PART 5

By signing this document, I also confirm that it is my responsibility to
follow up with DIME Analytics (dimeanalytics@worldbank.org)
if there is any part of this agreement that I do not fully understand.

### STC/STT Signature

Signature of STC/STT: ______________________________

Printed name of STC/STT: ______________________________

Date: _________________
